---
title: Announcing spotify-playlist-archive's website
description: Mac is back on track, and he's proud to announce the official
  website for the spotify-playlist-archive project!
date_published: 2022-06-30T10:06:38+0100
date: 2022-07-04T09:07:44.118Z
image: /images/zac-durant-_6hzpu9hyfg-unsplash.jpg
head.image.src: https://journal.maciejpedzi.ch/images/zac-durant-_6hzpu9hyfg-unsplash.jpg
---
It feels amazing to be back in the programming game, even for just two months before I'll inevitably have to start preparing for my finals coming up in May next year. But right now, I'm on the *last of a kind* holidays, so I'd better **make them count** big time. By that, I mean investing as much time as possible into developing all kinds of fun and useful projects... speaking of which, I'd like to reveal one of them: **spotify-playlist-archive's official website**. This one was initally supposed to be an entirely separate project, but having realised that Spotify would never accept my quota extension requests because of [section 4.3.a.i](https://developer.spotify.com/terms/#section-iv-restrictions) in their API's Terms of Service, I needed to come up with a Plan B. This resulted in me joining forces with [Mack](https://github.com/mackorone), who's the sole maintainer of [spotify-playlist-archive](https://github.com/mackorone/spotify-playlist-archive) project.

Mack has done a tremendous job, creating a script preserving snapshots of **over four thousand** playlists each day by creating a commit with all the data in its own repository. This is a brilliant approach, since it takes advantage of unlimited (as in not restricted by any paid Github plans) free storage provisioned by Github for the repo. As a result, setting up and maintaining a *full-blown database* to store the snapshots is not necessary, rendering the project very cost-effective. There is, however, **quite a significant downside** to this solution. It requires prior Git and Github knowledge in order for the end-user to be able to browse and expand the archive, meaning *laymen* are very likely to rapidly lose interest in using the project, let alone contributing to it.

That's where the official website comes into play. Its goal is to provide a much nicer user-experience to the aforementioned *laymen*, comparable to Internet Archive's [Wayback Machine](https://web.archive.org). The end user just has to enter a link to a Spotify playlist, and if it's present in the archive's registry, a calendar with marked snapshot capture dates will show up. From there, viewing a specific snapshot is just a calendar date click away! Of course, this is only a high-level overview of this website's core functionality, but there's plenty of other features, such as snapshot comparison, or a playlist's statistics tab should get implemented shortly after initial release (or maybe even as its part). Speaking of which, I'm positive the app **will be ready** for a public launch next, which obviously **doesn't mean** it really will be published, but it certainly **could**.

That's it for this post, thank you so much for reading in! I'm aware I've already broken out of a formula described on the about page, but let's consider this one a *housewarming party* of sorts, ok? Cool, I'll see you in the next article, a proper one this time around, I promise!